people don't want to work right now you
came here for the truth so let me unveil
that for you I'm going to talk about the
circumstances that we have today in the
economy it's not just going on in the
United States we're seeing it in Canada
we're seeing it in Europe Australia New
Zealand everywhere is basically the same
right now and why it's because they
devalued your currency you probably
heard me say that before yeah well I'm
going to show you the data today and
what I would like to call the breakdown
of Nations
that's what's going on here and we see
this perfect example going on in Canada
I'm going to break that down for you
right here you got to understand that
every country is always going to have
good points and bad points there's going
to be weak spots it's going to be strong
ones you got to look at if I say gas
prices for instance very different if
you're in California or if you're in
Texas or if we're looking at you know
the jobs numbers this is very localized
but when we start to understand in depth
what's really going on for some people
pretty eye openening let me show you
some information first we're going to
start off with this 38% of Americans
have never felt more uninspired at work
than they do now that's not good adding
work-based Fitness options could fix the
productivity slump and potentially
improve revenue for companies that's
right what you need is a yoga class in
the middle of the work day in order to
get people working again yes I'm sure
that will fix it what we need number one
is for stuff not for people to get paid
more this is the we need more pay listen
the stuff that we have our Basic
Essentials housing whether that's rent
or mortgage our food and our energy is
way too
expensive that's it that's all yeah you
you compare that to our salaries no it
doesn't keep up but what happens here is
everything goes up but our wages will
not keep up with the prices of
everything and that is the issue you see
we need to have a period in which these
assets like you know our real estate
doesn't go up at such a ridiculous rate
and guess what when the Federal Reserve
is actually buying mortgage back
Securities which in an indirect way is
supporting the real estate market that
is complete absurdity they are recently
here engaging in quantitative tightening
right we heard about that well they're
going to slow down their progress on
that so they're going to slow it down
and try to do a nice little soft Landing
think of like an airplane okay we were
doing 80 billion on the treasuries now
we're doing
25 well what happens here is that
they're still doing mortgage back
Securities haven't touched it they
haven't touched the
amount so the treasuries I believe was
like 60 uh for the treasuries itself but
understand something they are going hard
hard on that for mortgage back
Securities and they're not
stopping crazy workers are secretly
using AI on important tasks over fears
that it will make them look
replaceable uh they they are replaceable
okay that's what's going to happen these
companies are actively right now whether
you like it or not whether doesn't
matter the there are right now
conference calls in the boardrooms they
are asking the question how do we
increase productivity productivity
productivity you you hear that stuff you
probably do whether or not you're in
those meetings or or you're just hearing
about it on CNBC or
whatever do you understand what that
means it is
actually trying to get rid of people
that's what it is a warning from the
breakdown Nations and I would call it
the breakdown of Nations okay the fate
of former model economies carry lessons
for current Stars oh look
we have the Toronto skyline that's right
Canada's GDP their gross domestic
product has been shrinking at the worst
rate for any developed country in the
top 50
50 understand
this this is a country that per capita
pumped in more cash than the United
States did vastly outnumbering
any other country in terms of the amount
of money that they jacked in I didn't
get any I don't know who did but I hope
it was the people that actually needed
it I have a feeling though most of it
was
squandered okay
well Canada Chile Germany South Africa
and Thailand these breakdown Nations
carry a lesson growth is hard sustaining
it is even harder so the stars of the
day are not necessarily the stars of
Tomorrow big problem right let's take
those two of Canada and Germany this was
Germany was the growth story of Europe
Canada was one where hey we got lots of
resources things are so fantastic right
here take Canada first widely admired
for how it weathered the global
financial crisis of 2008 it missed a
boat when the world moved on driven by
Tech big Tech instead of Commodities the
GDP has been shrinking
0.4% a year since 2020 the worst for any
of the developed economies in the top 50
not the top I come on it's the worst in
the top 50 new investment and job growth
is being driven mainly by government so
wherever there is like oh there's oh
there's a little Shining Light over
there what is it oh it's government
that's taxpayer dollars that's a further
burden you look around what are they
doing increasing taxes on everybody
that's their only thing that's all
they're doing now private sector action
is confined largely to the property
Market which does little for
productivity and prosperity many young
people can't afford to buy in one of the
world's most expensive housing markets
pressed to name a digital success
Canadian site Shopify but the online
store is the only Tech name among the
country's 10 largest companies as Shares
are trading half of their 2021 Peak not
a good sign you look at Germany you look
at what's happening with the economic
contraction that they had this is an
issue you've got terrible demographics
in a lot of these countries here you
cannot print your way out of a crisis
ever ever some suggest it could be used
temporarily but it never is it never is
and so what do they do they just keep
doing it the Federal Reserve right now
is pumping in cash still today what is
the purpose of this they're doing
through one means or another they are
trying to actively support the system
Just Let It Go just Let It Go let's have
what I call in my first book the
economic
detox and let it go it will restore
itself better than it was before ah but
who am I Jerome poell and my my good
dear friend Janet Yellen more than a
friend Janet
yelling oh yes they are they are here to
help you record wave of Americans fled
big cities for small ones in 2023
obviously you've seen this before but I
got the stats I got the data and you
could see what has happened surge in
small towns more and more people moving
out because why because they love the
small towns nope because they love
moving away from their friends and
family no it's because they cannot
afford it anymore that's it that's a
straight up fact nearly 50% of people
are considering leaving their jobs in
2024 more than during the Great
resignation people have had it people
are not making enough money they're
starting to say should I go live abroad
it's cheaper over there I could live
like a king in that place or I could
live more you know I could have more
spending money if I live in that place
it's not all fantastic there's no
perfect place let me tell you I've
searched but you got
understand like if you put a timeline in
front of you and you start to say what
does the next 5 years look like is it
going to be better where I am yes or no
and be honest with yourself five years
down the road you got to ask where is
your personal situation hey maybe
there's going to be you know the Bezos
of the
world they're going to be just fine I'm
telling you right now they're going to
be just
fine Rising number of men
don't want to work okay a lot of people
don't want to work today we see that um
I I've talked to people about this as
well there's different issues for
it the labor force participation rate is
still down significantly at the same
time you got people that are working a
lot you got people working two and three
and four jobs we know
that however I think for a lot of
individuals they are dis franchise
they're saying there's no point in this
and the jobs that they are able to get
are not what is basically worth it they
they find that it's not worth it um hard
to know for sure of course but here you
know it it's sad to see this because
there's something very very enjoyable
about hard work if you work hard all all
the time and then maybe you take your
week rest periods or you work six days a
week and then you get to rest on the
seventh I find that much more enjoyable
than doing nothing and it doesn't mean
that you got to work you know the way
that Society tells you or whatever I
just think doing hard stuff is something
that it's rewarding that means
exercising
that means taking the stairs instead of
the elevator all of these things all of
them saying thank you when others maybe
don't do so right those are the harder
steps people always go for the path of
least resistance and where they end up
is not where most people say they want
to be do you understand what I'm saying
if everybody's going to take the path of
least resistance you have to be the one
to say I'm going to take the harder path
and it's not fun look there was an
easier time I'm telling you right now if
you you were 20 years ago you're 40
years ago these those were easier
times for for a lot of reasons for in
terms of like income to expense
ratio those times are gone and we could
sit here and we could say oh my God this
is terrible if I only voted in the right
guy he would help me out those times are
gone so we have to take action as best
we can California fast food chains are
now serving sticker shock you've seen
this articles like this the prices of
things are going crazy addiction to debt
has left the global economy one shock
away from disaster that's where this
leads us because people are in debt
corporations are in debt their debt debt
debt is just piled up and ballooning up
and there have been many people that
have said a debt crisis look Ray ddio
you could read his
book about the death crisis um it always
ends badly we know that to be the case
usually the suggestion is that it is a
deflationary shock to the people to the
you know those who are directly exposed
and then there's the the ripple effect
and uh that certainly could be the case
but we don't know how that will be
responded to other than what I have seen
over and over again is that there's a
massive flood of printed paper garbage
and people then after a period of time
are just worse off people they want a
deflation and certainly I would vote for
a deflation I would love a deflation uh
for a period of a you know a year two
years whatever it takes but what happens
here is that during that deflation it's
not like okay so what's going to happen
cuz I know what happens here the
YouTubers they tell you buy my course
it's 500 bucks I'll teach you everything
look when when the economy goes down the
tubes you just pay attention to me I'll
tell you right I mean that that's fine
right except for the fact that when you
have a debt crisis and when you have a
major not a little not a not not the
little things that that they make you
think it will be and you're going to be
able to pinpoint okay when it gets to
here when it gets to there boom I'm
going to buy I'm going to sell and I'm
going to be rich right it's not how it
works because there's absolute chaos
pandemonium and no two people are
agreeing so you can't formulate where
things are where things are going to be
you don't know what the future looks
like because the present is so
uncertain that's what a debt crisis is
that's what we're dealing with today and
people are going to be you know blind
ited by this but what can you do there
are absolute principles absolute
principles number one you got to get
some level of
self-sufficiency and preparedness okay
it doesn't matter how much money you
have doesn't matter you have to have
some level of self-sufficiency and and
preparedness okay what does that mean I
have a video about that called pillars
of prosperity you just type in Pillars
of prosperity the money GPS very simple
number one self-sufficiency number two
try to increase your income as best you
can what can you do well there are many
things that you can do as an individual
use the skills that you already have or
you could learn new skills how do you
learn new skills I mean there's a
million places to do so one of those
places is called class Central class
Central is a place that I found that
I've shown I shared before where you can
learn all this machine learning all this
you know the name changes all time AI
artificial intelligence all that stuff
actually courses from the universities
from the universities themselves they
put it on there because they want
skilled talent to be joining uh the
workforce and so on all four you there
class Central those are things I teach
people on a small class small Zoom class
format on Fridays we do the finance
Friday we look at the intricacies of the
markets we look at the economy we talk
about know investing strategies that's
Friday and on Sunday's business live we
talk about building an online business
from scratch from scratch how to do it
step one all the way through guiding
people on a weekly basis that's what you
got to do you have to take the
initiative you have to take the Hard
Road it sucks let me tell you but I've
been on that Hard Road for a while and
it is not something I don't regret I
assure you if you appreciate this
information hit that thumbs up button as
always I'll see you tomorrow take care